# MTech-Viva-Portal

#### Live Link: https://mtech-viva-portal.herokuapp.com/

## Steps to use in local system:
* Use npm install or npm i to install all dependencies
* Emails are send using OAuth2 of google so you need to generate clientID, client secret and refresh token and add a test email for sending the emails for using this app.
* Add .env file in the following format:
```
JWT_SECRET = any_random_string
user = email id which should be given as tester in OAuth2
DB = link of database for storing information
clientId = generated by OAuth2 of google
clientSecret = generated by OAuth2 of google
refreshToken = generated by OAuth2 playground of google
```
* Now the site is good to run

## Basic background:
* This portal is developed to schedule the viva of M.Tech students.

## Functionalities of the portal:
### Admins:
* The admin can add the students and faculty to the portal as well as a new admin. Then the one registered will get the mail regarding their login credencials.
* The admins also have the rights to update the information of the students and faculty (expect passwords) but for admins they can change only their own details.
* The admins can also get the information about the students, students under each professor and the schedule of each professor.
* They can also delete the account of any student or faculty as well as their own account (only if there is atleast one more admin except their own).

### Student:
* Students can login after getting the login credentials and select their supervisor for their M.Tech thesis and type the title of their thesis. 
* They can do this as long as the supervisor hadn't scheduled the viva timing for him. Supervisor will get mail after this. 
* Also after change of supervisor both old and new supervisor will get the mail regarding that.

### Professor:
* Then supervisor can login and select the student under him and give information which are timing, venue, internal and external examiner of the examination for the student they selected.
* They can check the schedule of each professor by downloading the csv file containing the schedule of all professors for reference to select the internal and external examiner for the students using the option available in the navbar.
* They can also download csv file containing their schedule using the option available in the navbar.
